
Vencua was a mage-king, one among many of no more than ordinary note.
And then he discovered the secret of Ascendancy, built a great empire
to control the natural wells of magic all over the world, and began
to cast his Ascendance... and Shattered our world.

You are the heir of a fallen lineage, commanding a small force - a gnat
to Vencua's great empire.  Your size is your weakness, but perhaps it
can be a strength - Vencua, Ascended, may suffer to let you live.
In the meantime, gather your army into a force that may destroy
Vencua's Heart, the capital of the empire that powers his Ascendancy.

None shall Shatter our world, without facing the consequences!

---

Game rough walkthrough

The Shattered World is composed of world fragments linked by a network
of fragment portals, tiny links of magic which prevent the world from
completely falling apart.  The player starts commanding forces within
one home fragment, and may send scouts and spies to nearby fragments.
The player may then take over nearby undefended fragments, or fight for
them against a weak Empire presence (at this stage it would be suicidal
to engage a strong Empire presence).  Players (and Vencua's Empire)
control fragments by building Mage Towers, placed on a Magic Well,
located in each fragment.

After the player gains a small empire of a few fragments, Vencua's
Empire will be more alarmed, making it more likely that Vencua will
send forces against the player.  The player must now defend the small
area he has claimed against Vencua's army.

Vencua's army seems to be trained in some higher plane accessible only
to Vencua, Ascended.  They enter our world through outworld portals
controlled by Vencua.  Destroying the portals prevents the forces from
entering the world through those portals, but the outworld portals are
numerous and Vencua can simply send them through other portals.  Still,
if the player destroys outworld portals near fragments he or she
controls, he or she can at least delay the attack, gaining some breathing
space.

Vencua did several researches, and maintains several libraries.  The
player can capture a world fragment with one or more of those libraries,
and thereby gain access to more advanced unit types.

Vencua's Empire has captured some high-level Mages and Knights, and forced
them to become Cogitants, coercing them to think for and run his Empire.
Finding and freeing them reduces the Empire's alarm (they are, after all,
part of the "thinkers" and "planners" of the Empire) and gains you a
high-level unit.

The Empire also sealed away several Jotun, powerful giants with great
magical powers.  The player can take over a world fragment with a Sealed
Jotun, and proceed to undo the seal, freeing the Jotun.  Having one or
two against Vencua's Empire is a great help towards victory.

In the meantime, the player must scout and find Vencua's Limbs: Vencua's
Left Arm, Vencua's Right Fist, Vencua's Left Foot, and Vencua's Right Leg.
These special Mage Towers prevent Vencua's Heart from being damaged, and
are scattered over various fragments - their destruction is required for
victory.

Through all this, Vencua's alarm over the player's actions can only grow,
and the player must carefully balance between acquiring more power versus
irritating Vencua enough to trigger an attack too large to handle.

Finally, after building an army powerful and versatile enough to destroy
each of Vencua's Limbs, the player makes one last push through one of
Vencua's Ribs to finally destroy Vencua's Heart and thereby win the game.

---

Concepts

Alarm - The game is played solely as a rebellion against Vencua's
Empire.  The player starts with a pathetically small force which Vencua
deems to be much too small to be a threat.  However, as the player
expands his or her army, Vencua re-evaluates the threat level of the
player; this assessment is the Alarm Level.  Higher levels of Alarm mean
that Vencua will send more powerful forces against the player.

Unit Level - Units, when trained, have a particular level which defines
how powerful they are - obviously, higher-level units are more powerful.
All normal unit types have different levels.  The player can research
higher-level versions of all units, up to level 3.  Higher-level versions
of each unit type are researched independently.  Level 4 units can be
trained only if you have researched level 3, and have captured an
Advanced Training Yard (and can only be trained at that training yard).
Level 5 units (the maximum level) can only be trained by Vencua's
Empire, but Enslaved Cogitants are always level 5 units when freed.

Control Points - Units and towers need to have control points in order
for the player to have more of that unit, similar to supply or control
in other RTS games.  Control points are divided by level: the player
cannot support a level 2 unit using Level 1 Control Points, and neither
can he or she support a level 1 unit using Level 2 Control Points.
Control structures provide control points for all levels, giving smaller
number of control points for higher levels.  Putting multiple control
structures on the same fragment gives diminishing returns.

Work Crews and Construct Priorities - Structures don't build and
repair themselves (except for Mage Towers, which feed directly from the
Magic Well you build them on).  They are built by work crews, which are
hidden away by the game as "Work Crew Points" (the game handles the
logistics of moving work crews etc. to where they are needed).  Work
Crew points are needed to build structures - at least one work crew
point must be allocated for each structure under construction, or else
construction is stalled.  The home Magic Tower provides one work crew
point, and additional work crew points can be acquired by building
additional work crew houses.  The player can affect the distribution of
work crew points to structures by controlling Construct Priorities for
each structure.

Mana Supply - magical units and magical defenses require a constant flow
of magic power (mana).  Mana supply "flows" from Mage Towers, and passes
through interfragment portals.  Enemy mage towers prevent mana supply
from going beyond the fragment they're in (although mana supply still
reaches that fragment - it just won't flow beyond it).  Without mana
supply, Mages and Towers cannot fire, and most structures can't be
built.  Some Mage unit types have the Sourcery ability, which allow them
to provide Mana Supply naturally to the fragment they are on.  Vencua's
Empire also has Disrupters, which are tough units that interrupt the
mana supply path even worse than mage towers: the fragment they're on
loses mana supply, unless there are more Sourcery-ability units than
Disrupters.  Work crews also cannot work on fragments without mana
supply, even when allocated to the structure.

Magic Well - Each world fragment has one magic well that focuses the
magic in that world fragment.  Claiming this magic well by building a
Mage Tower on it also claims that fragment directly, and allows the
player to convert the magic well into actual magic to supply to magic
users, such as Mages and Towers.

Randomized Special Units - Aside from basic units, it's possible to
build Special unit types.  These special unit types are acquired at the
start of the game (the player gets one special unit type, and Vencua's
empire gets several) and additional types are acquired by capturing
Libraries (Vencua's empire gets new ones based on its alarm).  Special
unit types have random abilities (such as the aforementioned Sourcery
ability).  Examples include the ability to resist fire damage, attack
with lightning bolts, stun opponents, and provide healing to allies.
Note that Vencua's Empire also gains special units as alarm grows.

Cloaking and Sight - Some units, such as Spies, are cloaked and cannot
normally be seen unless they attack, after which they are "Painted"
for some amount of time and can be seen by opponents.  However, units
with Sight will periodically "sweep" nearby areas for cloaked units.
Such a sweep has a possibility to "paint" individual cloaked units,
revealing them for a short amount of time and allowing them to be
attacked by units.  Differences in levels between the Cloaked unit and
the Sighted unit bias the possibility in favor of the higher-leveled
unit.

Damage Types - There are 4 damage types: Physical, Magic, Fire, and
Lightning.  Of these types, only one is particularly "special" -
Lightning will strike multiple different targets.  Archers and
Knights typically attack with Physical damage, although randomized
special Archers can have the ability to attack with Fire.  Mages and
Towers typically attack with Magic damage, although both can have
the ability to attack with Fire or Lightning.  Damage can be
resisted; this reduces Physical and Magic damage by 50%, and reduces
Fire and Lightning damage by 75%.  Knights usually have Physical
Resist (although randomized special Knights may occassionally lose
this but gain more abilities) while Archers usually have Magic
Resist (with the same rule for randomized special Archer types).

Grand Spells - some spells of great power exist.  These spells
would be extremely dangerous to cast if done normally by mere
living flesh, but mechanical contrivances can be used to control and
limit such grand spells.  These are constructed at Machine Shops
specifically to contain a particular grand spell; triggering the
grand spell destroys the spell wagon holding it.  The destruction
of the spell wagon also automatically releases the spell, causing
it to trigger.  Grand spells all affect some area and are so
powerful that they affect both friend and enemy alike.  Vencua,
however, has ensured that Level 5 units have sufficient fortitude
to be unaffected by grand spells.  Examples of Grand Spells include
Lightning Storm (which casts several lightning bolt attacks in an
area), Curse (which curses affected units so that they are
automatically killed by any attack within a particular amount of
time), and Frost (which temporarily encases all units in
impenetrable blocks of ice, protecting them but also preventing
them from actually doing anything).

---

Basic Structures

Magic Tower - built on the Magic Well found on each fragment, Magic
Towers provide Mana Supply that flows to other world fragments, up to
and including world fragments that are claimed by hostile Magic
Towers - Mana Supply is needed for defense towers to actually work,
for Mages to attack and Teleport (if they have the ability), and to
build other structures.  Capturing Libraries and Advanced Training
Yards is done by destroying the Empire's Mage Tower on that fragment
and constructing your own.

Training Yard - trains most units, up to units of level 3.

Machine Shop - trains spell wagons (see Concepts, Grand Spells) and
siege units.

Sight Towers - the basic defense structure, this structure is less
tough than typical special towers but have the Sight ability to
sense Cloaked units.

---

Basic Units

Knights - melee units with good life and magic damage, somewhat
more expensive than other unit types, and requires more control.
Usually have the Physical Resist ability, making them strong
against Archers and other Knights.

Archers - ranged units with good range and physical damage.
Usually have the Magic Resist ability, making them strong
against Mages.

Mage - ranged units with reasonable range and magic damage.
Usually have the Power ability, giving better damage but
increasing their cost and control.  Best against Knights and
other Mages.  Requires mana supply to attack and teleport (if
they are capable of teleportation).

---



